Port 10573 service accounts docs (#1605)
port-labs/port-docs: docs/sso-rbac/rbac/rbac.md

      ]
    }
  }
  ``` 

> <br/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Service Accounts

> Once you have the User blueprint you can use it to create service accounts. Service accounts are non-human users (bots) that can be used for integrating external tools and automating daily tasks using Port. <br/> For example - creating a Slack bot that can execute Port [self service actions](https://docs.getport.io/actions-and-automations/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have the User blueprint you can use it to create service accounts. Service accounts are non-human users (bots) that can be used for integrating external tools and automating daily tasks using Port. <br/> For example - creating a Slack bot that can execute Port [self service actions](/actions-and-automations/create-self-service-experiences/).
```

> #### Creating Service Account

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Create a service account
```

> :::info

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::info API-only
```

Currently creating service accounts is only available using the API.
:::

> For creating new service account all you need to do is to create new user entity using the [Create Entity API](http://localhost:4000/api-reference/create-an-entity) endpoint with the value of `Service Account` in the `port_type` property.<br/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a new service account, all you need to do is create a new user entity using the [Create Entity API](/api-reference/create-an-entity) endpoint with the value `Service Account` in the `port_type` property.<br/>
```

> The creation of a service account has two limitations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Creating a service account has two limitations:
```

> 1. The new service account email domain must be `serviceaccounts.getport.io`. For example `my-new-service-account@serviceaccounts.getport.io`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The new service account email domain must be `serviceaccounts.getport.io`.  
For example `my-new-service-account@serviceaccounts.getport.io`.
```

> 2. The `status` property of the new service account must be `Active`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The `status` property of the new service account must be `Active`:
```

<details>
<summary><b>Full example (click to expand)</b></summary>
```bash
curl -L -X POST 'https://api.getport.io/v1/blueprints/_user/entities' \
-d '{
    "identifier": "my-new-service-account@serviceaccounts.getport.io",
    "title": "My New Service Account",
    "blueprint": "_user",
    "icon": "User",
    "properties": {
        "port_type": "Service Account",
        "port_role": "Member",
        "status": "Active"
    },
    "relations": {}
}' \
-H 'content-type: application/json' \
-H 'Authorization: <YOUR API TOKEN>'

```
</details>

#### Using The Service Account

> When you create new service account entity you might notice in the response body a new section called `additional_data`. Inside this section you can find the new service account credentials you can use for authenticate Port API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When creating a new service account entity, you might notice a new section in the response body named `additional_data`. Inside this section you can find the new service account credentials you can use to authenticate against Port's API.
```

> :::warning

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::warning Sensitive credentials
```

> This credentials will not appear anywhere else. Make sure you keep it in a secure place and share it only with people in your organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These credentials will not appear anywhere else. Make sure you keep them in a secure place and share them only with people in your organization.
```

:::

> To use Port API with the new service account you can generate API access token with the credentials using the [Create Access Token API](https://docs.getport.io/api-reference/create-an-access-token) endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use Port's API with the new service account, you can generate an API access token with the credentials using the [Create Access Token API](/api-reference/create-an-access-token) endpoint.  
```

> With the generated token you can use any of the Port API endpoints as the new service account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the generated token you can use any of the API endpoints as the new service account.
```

<details>
<summary><b>Full response (click to expand)</b></summary>
```json
{
    "ok": true,
    "entity": {
        "identifier": "my-new-service-account@serviceaccounts.getport.io",
        "title": "My New Service Account",
        "icon": "User",
        "blueprint": "_user",
        "team": [],
        "properties": {
            "port_type": "Service Account",
            "port_role": "Member",
            "status": "Active"
        },
        "relations": {},
        "createdAt": "2024-09-21T08:56:38.062Z",
        "createdBy": "",
        "updatedAt": "2024-09-21T08:56:38.062Z",
        "updatedBy": ""
    },,
    "additionalData": {
        "credentials": {
            "clientId": "<YOUR SERVICE ACCOUNT CLIENT ID>",
            "clientSecret": "<YOUR SERVICE ACCOUNT CLIENT SECRET>"
        }
    }
}
```
</details>

#### Service Accounts Permissions

> The main thing with Port service account is that they are treated like any other users and extend the same RBAC mechanism. That means you can define roles for them (Member, Admin...) or add them to teams and they will be granted with the matching permissions accordingly. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Port service accounts are treated like any other users and extend the same RBAC mechanism. This means that you can define roles for them (Member, Admin, etc.) or add them to teams and they will be granted the relevant permissions. 
```

#### Disabling Service Account

> Service accounts can easily be disabled at any time. To Disable service account you will need to update it's `status` property to be `Disabled`. Disabled service account can no longer generating new API tokens or use existing once. Disabled service account can be re-enabled at any time by updating the `status` property back to `Active`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Service accounts can easily be disabled at any time. To Disable a service account you will need to update it's `status` property to `Disabled`.  
Disabled service account can no longer generate new API tokens or use existing ones. Disabled service account can be re-enabled at any time by updating the `status` property back to `Active`.
```

<details>
<summary><b>Full response (click to expand)</b></summary>
```json
{
    "ok": true,
    "entity": {
        "identifier": "my-new-service-account@serviceaccounts.getport.io",
        "title": "My New Service Account",
        "icon": "User",
        "blueprint": "_user",
        "team": [],
        "properties": {
            "port_type": "Service Account",
            "port_role": "Member",
            "status": "Active"
        },
        "relations": {},
        "createdAt": "2024-09-21T08:56:38.062Z",
        "createdBy": "",
        "updatedAt": "2024-09-21T08:56:38.062Z",
        "updatedBy": ""
    },,
    "additionalData": {
        "credentials": {
            "clientId": "<YOUR SERVICE ACCOUNT CLIENT ID>",
            "clientSecret": "<YOUR SERVICE ACCOUNT CLIENT SECRET>"
        }
    }
}
```
</details>

#### Service Accounts Permissions
Port service accounts are treated like any other users and extend the same RBAC mechanism. This means that you can define roles for them (Member, Admin, etc.) or add them to teams and they will be granted the relevant permissions accordingly. 

> #### Disabling Service Account

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Disabling Service Accounts
```

Service accounts can easily be disabled at any time. To Disable a service account you will need to update it's `status` property to `Disabled`.

> Disabled service account can no longer generating new API tokens or use existing once. Disabled service account can be re-enabled at any time by updating the `status` property back to `Active`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Disabled service accounts can no longer generate new API tokens or use existing ones. Disabled service accounts can be re-enabled at any time by updating the `status` property back to `Active`.
```

:::
To use Port's API with the new service account, you can generate an API access token with the credentials using the [Create Access Token API](/api-reference/create-an-access-token) endpoint.
With the generated token you can use any of the API endpoints as the new service account.

<details>
<summary><b>Full response (click to expand)</b></summary>
```json
{
    "ok": true,
    "entity": {
        "identifier": "my-new-service-account@serviceaccounts.getport.io",
        "title": "My New Service Account",
        "icon": "User",
        "blueprint": "_user",
        "team": [],
        "properties": {
            "port_type": "Service Account",
            "port_role": "Member",
            "status": "Active"
        },
        "relations": {},
        "createdAt": "2024-09-21T08:56:38.062Z",
        "createdBy": "",
        "updatedAt": "2024-09-21T08:56:38.062Z",
        "updatedBy": ""
    },,
    "additionalData": {
        "credentials": {
            "clientId": "<YOUR SERVICE ACCOUNT CLIENT ID>",
            "clientSecret": "<YOUR SERVICE ACCOUNT CLIENT SECRET>"
        }
    }
}
```
</details>

> ### Service Accounts Permissions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Service account permissions
```

Port service accounts are treated like any other users and extend the same RBAC mechanism. This means that you can define roles for them (Member, Admin, etc.) or add them to teams and they will be granted the relevant permissions accordingly. 

> ### Disabling Service Accounts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Disabling service accounts
```

> Service accounts can easily be disabled at any time. To Disable a service account you will need to update it's `status` property to `Disabled`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Service accounts can easily be disabled at any time. To disable a service account, update it's `status` property to `Disabled`.
```
